###Madhumitha Kolkar

I caught fire coding!

I always saw myself becoming a pursuer of Science one day, probably in a chalk board filled room,running down some papers on String theory and what not of the Cosmic world. Or an author - somewhere in a little town, mid Europe sipping down a latte and working on a new book. But as fascinating as it all sounded, I yearned for more. There was a driving desire to learn, to experience and to create !
That's when it ignited. There it was in front of me- My first 'Hello World' program, and seeing the words -'Hello World' flash on a black screen, I knew this was it. It was the perfect blend of Science, Art , and above all - a chance to Create !
I didn't stop there , my fascination for programming led me down a learning spree- From C to Java, to Python, to Machine Learning , and even AI . It was a desire to want to know more, to be able to do more. Along the way, I also picked up an interest for Cyber Security and felt the threats of data warfare quite seriously. From Hello World to building a -'Self Destructible Encrypted Database System' and several other ML projects , I had discovered the programmer in me. While many used the pandemic to discover their artistic side, experimenting with Dolgona coffee and art - I took the less taken , seemingly boring road that interestingly turned out to be a life changer - I learnt Machine Learning and AI (Nobody would’ve guessed that) and started developing apps and models with a theme for science and space and well what do you know - Landed a job at a company I dreamt of as a kid , where I now work as a full time Machine Learning/AI Engineer by day (None the less still a pianist / artist / writer by night).
I aim to keep this fascination for technology alive, to learn more and make an impact in the tech community. There is so much out there, just like my beloved cosmos , the world within code is a limitless one. With my artistic attributes and technical qualities I aim to contribute to the world of technology and keep learning , every day inching a little closer to figuring out the expanse of the unknown. For what we know is a drop, and what we don't know is an Ocean.

Technical Specializations: Python, Machine Learning , Data Structures and Algorithms, AI , Neural Networks , NLP, LLMs, Computer Vision , Calculus , Algebra, Statistics, OOP, System Design , MVC , MVVM , SOLID .
Other Skills : Kotlin, Android Development , HTML, CSS, PHP, Ethical Hacking, Networking, Databases(SQL).
